I think really good companies
the very very very very best companies
tend to have founders and CEOs who ask
pretty aggressive questions. Zuckerberg,
Larry Page, those guys who have kind of
gotten all the way to the mountain top,
they're pretty blunt. If you're running
away from the truth to preserve
feelings, that's a very dangerous thing
in the tech company. And the kind of
corollary to that is it's really
important that like bad news travels
fast.
>> Yeah. That you know if something's wrong
that a CEO you find out about it. And so
you need that bluntness.
>> [music]
>> Everybody, today's guest is Ben Horowitz
of A16Z fame. Few reasons I wanted to
have him on. First, I wanted to get the
behind the scenes look on why Andreessen
passed on HubSpot back in the day and
there's a funny story behind that. He's
seen so much. He's backed some amazing
CEOs and some CEOs that went down in
dust. Like what do they have in common?
What do the great ones What do they do?
What are they like? What's What's the
patterns there? And then what's the same
with the ones who failed?
I read his book like a hundred years ago
when I was running HubSpot. I thought it
was really good.
I think he published it in 2014. I
wanted the updated, you know, what's
changed since he wrote The Hard Thing
About Hard Things back in the day.
The convo's I think it's really good.
One of the things I've always liked
about Ben is he is completely unfiltered
and gets after it. I think there's a lot
of nuggets in here. I'll come back at
the end and give you my summary. You
probably don't remember when we first
met. Can I Can I
>> Yeah, yeah, remind me. Can I tell you
about it? It's It's stuck in my mind.
Kind of a long story. HubSpot pitched
you on the Series D.
>> Okay, I remember that. Yeah. Three of us
came in for the pitch, our very newly
hired COO, JD Sherman, Mhm. myself, and
my co-founder, Dharmesh. And we walked
in the room, we had a nice welcome
because there's a guy that worked for
you that was your sales guy, named Mark
Cranney, that was a former colleague of
mine. And then we had just written a
book called Inbound Marketing, and two
of your marketers had the book, so we
were like, this is a hometown we got
this.
>> yeah, yeah. Okay, we sat down,
and JD sat here, and I sat here, and
Dharmesh sat here. I remember like it
was yesterday. And we started with
intros. JD barely got a sentence out of
his mouth, like, wait, you're the COO?
Tell me about your background. You spent
like 15 minutes on JD. You spent like 15
minutes on JD, and then went to me, and
then spent 15 minutes on me, like,
you're such an [__] why did you hire
a COO? And then Dharmesh. Anyway, you
guys passed, as did everyone. Two weeks
later, I read your book. Ah. And I saw
in the book that
you're not a fan of the idea of hiring a
COO. So, I guess my question And by the
way, I think chips on the shoulder are
really I know. You put a chip, a
ginormous chip, on JD Sherman's
shoulder.
>> Oh, good.
It was incredibly beneficial. How do you
feel about CEOs COOs these days? You
Same same thing, or change your mind?
Well, no, I mean, I I think that
generally, when a company is small,
flatter is better. In the early 2000s,
it was a very popular construct, and it
was kind of mister outside, mister
inside, that kind of thing.
You know, if you're really scaling, um,
and you're not kind of wrestling with
product market fit, it like it can work
for a time
on a product cycle, but when you hit the
end of the product cycle, it's
Yeah, so much about a company, a tech
company, is kind of the communication
architecture,
and it just makes that worse, generally.
It's a little like two people in charge.
Not to say it can't work, and you know,
it depends on the definition of COO, and
if COO is really just a big title for
the sales guy, like that's fine, you
know. COO in the sense that I'm running
the company and you're like Mr. Thug Man
outside.
I think that's not a great thing for us
to have.
You've invested in tons of CEOs at this
point, coach tons.
What like what are you looking for?
What's like a major green flag, red
flag? How's it changed over time? Like
what's your filter?
On a CEO? Founder CEO. So you're looking
at the company in the market, but the
person. Not the co-founder, the CEO. The
thing about founder CEOs is that
there's definitely not what I would
consider like a canonical one. So if you
look at
Mark Zuckerberg
and Ali Ghodsi and Elon Musk, they're
all like extremely different types of
people. So
you know, you try not to get into like
anything about the look and feel or
sound or like you know, are they very
extroverted? Are they very introverted?
Or this kind of none of that I think
matters. There's a few things in common.
One is
you know, anybody great uh
really thinks for themselves. So they
don't feel like they're reading the room
or influenced by what I'm going to say
or anything like that.
>> And you could probably figure that out
during the pitch, you think? Well, you
can figure out if they're not that
during the pitch, for sure. And then
you know, do they have like truly
original thinking on things? So and then
you know, from a leadership standpoint,
I really like the Colin Powell
definition, which is you know,
leadership is the ability to get people
to follow you if only out of curiosity.
>> [laughter]
>> Um so so I think, well, would I want to
work for this person? Like how
interesting are they? And if you don't
have that, right, you're not going to
bring in the super high-end talent,
which is
you know, it's kind of a a momentum
thing. If you can't hire the very, very
top talent, then you're not very
unlikely to be a great company. It's
kind of you know, how good is your
talent density and all that kind of
thing. So We just had our Sequoia
offsite and I got into not an argument,
but discussion with uh Shawn Maguire,
one of our partners.
>> Yeah. Yeah, he's very outspoken.
>> Very outspoken. And he got up and he
said, "What we should be looking for are
these founders that won the chess
Olympiad or the math Olympiad in high
school and surrounded by other of those
folks." And he was very articulate and
made a good point. A lot of people shook
their head. And I thought about it and I
was like, "Well, HubSpot's no
Tesla, but it did pretty well. And my
co-founder and I, we're Sloan people.
Not, you know,
>> Yeah. And then we hired crap tons of
people from Northeastern. And I was
like, "It worked out pretty well." And
then I just think like early in the
cycle, maybe you need those PhDs and
those, you know, chess champions, math
champions. But as it moves up the stack
as Salesforce and ServiceNow kind of
look like us. Do you have a take on my
disagreement with Shawn? Well, I think
it depends a little on
the era and the market. So, if you look
at HubSpot, right? Like it was a
marketing sales idea as much as it was a
technological idea. So, you have to have
great people on that side who tend not
to be math Olympiads.
>> Yes. [laughter]
And so, for that company, I don't think
that's right. For other companies,
that's right. The other thing is, you
know, math Olympiad is very specific.
The very best companies are founded by
exceptionally smart people. There's no
question about that. I agree with him on
on that angle of it. You know, like how
smart is Elon? Extremely [__] smart.
Was he math Olympiad? Probably not. Like
I don't think so. But just like raw
horsepower is pretty important. Like
Larry Page is probably
you know, one of the smartest people in
the world. That ends up mattering if
you're going to build something Google
size.
Um it's very hard to imagine that
without somebody like Larry Page who
could even think of something that big.
Yeah. You've worked with a lot of CEOs.
Who's the best? Probably the best one
that I personally work with right now is
Ali Ghodsi at Databricks. Yeah, he's a
PhD in computer science. He's extremely
smart. Um so, he kind of meets the Shawn
Maguire test. But he's like an
exceptionally good, you know, for an
enterprise software CEO, he's
exceptionally good at go-to-market, able
to compete with Snowflake, which was a
very, very good go-to-market
organization. And then he's just
absolutely
paranoid. The The only person I ever
known as paranoid as LA. I mean, I guess
Elon is this level of paranoid, but Andy
Grove was this level of paranoid.
>> yeah, exactly. You know, I think some of
that comes from him being and he's a
refugee.
Uh
you know, he grew up in Iran and then
when they Ayatollah Khomeini came in, uh
he had to flee to Sweden. Hopefully
that's uh correcting now finally after
all these years, but you know, that
having everything taken away from him,
um
really informed his psychology in a way
that's I'd say very beneficial for a
founder.
>> Mhm. Okay, I work with a lot of
founders. Their companies are growing
fast and I'm kind of new to this. What's
the pattern of mistakes these folks make
on the way up? What are the common
traps?
So,
like I think the universal one is kind
of starts with It's kind of confidence
is way kind of in a word.
But it starts with the fact that nobody
knows what they're doing is you probably
have experienced yourself. You have an
idea. You invent something.
You don't know how to run a company. No
idea. And so you start, you know,
building the company and you make
a lot of mistakes. Those mistakes are
extremely
damaging. You feel terrible about it
because you hired all the people, you
sold them on this great idea. Then you
make a mistake and everybody gets hurt.
And if you've not kind of been in a
position like that, which almost no
founder has, it can be like highly
psychologically challenging. And you see
people react to it in two very dangerous
ways. One is they overly defer. So,
okay, I hired a lot of smart people. I'm
going to be very open to their input on
all the decisions to the point where I'm
not really making the decision myself.
I'm kind of
doing a poll. But, nobody other than the
CEO has the context to make that
decision. Nobody kind of sees the whole
picture. And so, that can lead you into
not only bad decisions, but a very
dangerous political environment where
people go, "Oh, there's a vacuum here. I
can step into it."
And then the second thing that you see
often is just hesitation.
I don't know what the right answer is.
I have a suspicion. I'm like 52/48 on
it, but I'm afraid to make a mistake, so
I'm I'm going to not decide. And then
the other kind of hesitation is, "Well,
I'm going to avoid it." Like I see
something bad. I really need to fire the
head of sales. What is the press going
to say? What is my board going to say?
What is this going to be? Da da da da
And you're thinking about everything
that you should not be thinking about
rather than
can this person do the job? And those
things are really what cause founders to
fail at the CEO job. That that lack of
confidence, that hesitation. You know,
when I talk to CEOs, I'm like, "Look, if
you were like a linebacker in the NFL
and you were really fast, but you didn't
trust your eyes, you would get cut."
Because you won't get to the No matter
how fast you are, you're not going to
get to the ball carrier in time. If you
don't trust your eyes as CEO and go run
at the problem and make the decision,
you're going to fail. You're going to
get Like that's what's going to get you
replaced. It resonates with me. At
HubSpot, we had
all kinds of debt, culture debt, product
debt. We had decision debt at times, I
would call it. Yeah, yeah. And when the
company would
>> Decision debt is the worst debt, by the
way, cuz it it paralyzes a company. We
had I had it. So, I fell in your trap.
And the way it kind of worked was I
would see the company
slowing down and just like a lot of
debate and a lot of just stuff on my
desk.
And then once every like four, five, six
months be like, I need to make some
freaking decisions. And then once I made
some decisions, it just kind of
everything just started moving and
flowing. So, I felt that very much.
One other mistakes that I made talk
about the team building like you hired a
lot of VP of sales like People [__] up
their VP of sales hires all the time.
>> More than anything else, [laughter]
yeah. More than anything else. So, kind
of more generically hiring executives
Yeah. is also something you don't know
how to do. Right? Like it's
A lot of times you don't even know what
the job is. Like
what is a CFO? What's a control
structure?
You know, what are these systems they
speak of?
And [laughter] Yep. people go into hire
them like with that level of knowledge
and think they can like smell it out
from talking to a person and it's a
little like trying to hire a Japanese
interpreter and you don't know Japanese.
Like they're they're all going to sound
pretty good. And it's going to be very
hard for you to distinguish. So,
preparation I would say is very
important in terms of okay, have you
spoken to enough CEOs? Have you asked
them like what's the difference between
a good CFO and a great CFO? Like, you
know,
how would you hire this person? What
would you ask them? What would you want
to see? Um, you know, these kinds of
things. And just understand the job. I
always say
if you have a chance, just try to do the
job yourself, act in that role so that
you can get a
a feel for what the challenges in your
company. And it's also right like you
don't want a generic CFO, you want one
for your business. Then when you get
into sales, so the problem that that we
have all the time is we have engineers
running the company.
And then they're hiring a head of sales.
You could not be culturally different
between like an engineer and a head of
sales. The main thing is
like right down to how they talk to you.
So, engineers, if you ask them a
question,
100% of them
will try and think of what is the
correct answer to that question. That's
how they think about it. If you're a
sales person, your first thought isn't
what's the answer, it's why the [__] are
you asking me that question?
Right? Because that's a clue.
And so, you know, if you ask a an
engineer, like, "Does your product have
this feature?" The answer is yes or no.
If you ask a sales guy, it's like,
"Okay, what competitor was in here that
planted that trap for you? What's their
weakness and how do I get to that?" And
so, if you have an engineer talking to a
head a good sales guy, it's going to
upset them because they're often not
going to answer the question. They're
going to try and figure out why they're
being asked that question. And so, then
I like this, by the way. I hadn't
thought of it this way.
>> Yeah, but the the the guys who are good
at the job get rejected because you
don't like them. And then the people who
are terrible at it, those are the ones
that that end up getting hired. My Mark
Cranney used to say, you know, that
these CEOs they just want to take a guy
who failed the engineering test, put a
clean shirt on him, and like make him
head of sales. And and there's a real
truth to that. It's funny, I had this
conversation with Sujay when he was at
Dropbox. He goes, "How do I like deal
with the fact that our engineers are
upset that we're going to pay the sales
guys commissions?"
I would guarantee guarantee they're
going to be upset. Yeah, and I said,
"Well, it's very simple. Tell them
if they want to make commission, then
they can [__] grab a bag and sell
some [__] software.
And if they don't hit their number,
you're going to fire them. And if they
want that job, they can get a
commission. But otherwise, you know,
shut the [__] up."
You know, he said, "Oh, okay. I never
thought of it that way." I was like,
"Look,
the other question you can ask them is,
do you have engineers that like
on the weekend might write some software
for fun, like as a as a hobby?" And he
goes, "Yeah." And I said, "I guarantee
you don't have a single [__] sales
guy on the weekend who's selling
software as a [__] hobby." Like Like
that That is not a fun job. There has to
be a It's a prize fight. There is no
fight without a prize.
And I think that the whole mentality,
the whole cultural difference between
like what founders are and what sales
people are is so vast that
you know, somebody's got to have a
conversation with them about like,
"Okay, what are you really looking for?"
Because otherwise
you're just going to get somebody who's
not good at sales.
>> Okay, I'm the head of I'm an engineer.
I'm CEO of your brand new company.
I'm likely to screw the hire up. What's
your advice to me?
Yeah.
Well, it's funny. So, one of the
companies that both Sequoia and we were
invested in is a company called Okta,
which ended up doing
uh very well. It's actually Pete Grady.
I was on the board with Pete Grady on
that one. I know those guys. Yeah, and
you know, the very first like big
mistake that Todd almost made was hiring
the head of sales. There were two
candidates. One I I forgot his name and
the other was Adam Aarons, um who was
PTC guy. You know, we knew everything
about Adam because, you know, he had
worked for Cranny, you know, he had
worked for McMahon. Like I I knew
everybody in the tree.
And I called them all and they were
like, "This is the guy."
And then this other guy, you know, I got
front door references on him.
>> Yep. And
they came out okay. Like not great.
>> Yeah. But Todd wanted to hire this other
guy and the reason that he wanted to
hire him was he was much more
enthusiastic about Okta. Whereas Adam
was like,
"Well, I don't know about this company.
Let me talk to some of your customers."
and so forth and that kind of thing.
>> Yeah.
And so, you know, the conversation I had
with Todd was I was like, "Todd, you
don't want the sales guy all enthus-
They You want them to be qualifying
you."
>> Yep. Because when you're selling
good sales guys don't just answer the
damn questions they're being asked. They
qualify the customer. Do you really have
the money? Do you really have the need?
Do I really have a shot here or am I
politically already boxed out? You need
that. And I said, but beyond that
I got guys who owe me favors more than
they owe Adam favors
telling me he's great.
>> Yep. And this other guy who all the guys
owe him favors and don't owe me anything
say he's a B.
And so do not [__] this up. I'll never
forget it. And I I don't talk to
founders like this anymore cuz I'm more
mature. But I said Todd
>> Sure.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm still working on that. I said Todd,
look, if this hire doesn't work cuz we
were in a lot of trouble at the time.
You realize what's going to happen is
this is the end of your company. Like
this is it. So you got to be 100%
confident cuz I'm telling you you're
wrong.
And I'm more experienced at this than
you and so forth. So I really put
pressure on him. And he hired Adam and
you know, it ended up really making the
company. So I have a bunch of I have a
bunch of questions on But that's how
important is it? Like I think if we had
hired the other guy, Okta would have
gone bankrupt. Ooh.
I have a couple questions on that. It
sounds well, just the takeaway of I'm
that engineer who's CEO, I'm getting
some traction, hiring that as sales.
It's one, blind references really
matter.
And two, get a board
>> sales
by the way
it's the whole thing. Yeah.
Also who are you bringing with you?
Yeah. That's what I always ask. Who are
you bringing with you?
Okay, you're bringing this, that, and
the other. Okay. Can I call them?
>> Mhm.
And find out if they're coming. Yeah,
yeah, yeah. Cuz
any great sales leader
has big set of followers.
And anyone who's not great Nobody.
Nobody. Cuz
the one thing sales guys are, they're
savvy about the leader. Yes.
Like you've I've never met even a
mediocre sales person knows who's a good
leader. Okay, you brought up PTC a
couple you hired people from PTC. I came
from PTC. First of all, who's the
equivalent of PTC now? Building on the
sales leaders that are filling Silicon
Valley. I can't figure that out. And
two, what do you think it was about the
PTC mafia that worked so well? And by
the way, for listeners, PTC was a great
still a great company, but in the '90s,
it ripped and was fastest growing
company in the world for a while and we
sold CAD/CAM, we sold PLM software to
manufacturers. Hard sell, but we were
very good at it and the diaspora of PTC
sales execs throughout Silicon Valley
was very interesting and compelling.
There was a number of things about PTC,
but one of the underrated things was the
product wasn't that great.
Particularly the Windchill. The hoopla.
>> Didn't work. Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Anybody can say
>> like when you you like to hire a sales
guy that had a hard sell. You don't like
to hire somebody was like, "Yeah, he
crushed his numbers, but anyone could
have sold that." Yeah, like hire
somebody selling Google AdWords. Like
like you know what that job is?
How much do you want?
>> [laughter]
>> Okay. You're not going to build the this
>> see someone from Databricks though and
they were VP of Databricks and you're
looking for a CRO in your new company.
I'm not saying that's easy to sell, but
they have a brand, they have like a lot
of mojo. Is is that someone you're
looking for in an early stage startup or
no? Well,
you know, I can't comment on that
because you know, Databricks is
>> Well, do you know the analogy? Yeah,
it's like the early days of Oracle.
Those guys were different than an Oracle
salesperson today, right? And I think
that
like as it gets more established, it's
harder to tell because
you can survive on that, but I I I will
say this, if you have a product that's
complicated to sell,
then that's when you get to the PTC
level. The thing about PTC
that was so amazing other than like the
culture and the attitude. So this So
there's a culture and the attitude and
we talked about that which was unique
and probably illegal today.
>> [laughter]
>> I would say almost certainly illegal
today. But the thing that
I think is very replicable
but only if you have a difficult product
to sell is a discipline. And the
discipline really came down to, okay,
you're going into an account.
You know there are competitors and how
systematic are you about laying the
traps for the competitors, you know,
making sure you make a comprehensive
technical case, a comprehensive business
case, making sure that you've charted
everybody in that organization who's in
that decision process and it's a very
complicated decision process for PTC.
Getting
assurances that they're all like lined
up.
And that's so complicated and requires
so much courage and effort and
competitiveness that that translates
into anything.
Whereas
look, if you're walking into an account
and they're already predisposed to buy,
you can skip steps. You can get away
with [__] You know, you just have to
call in, show up, hey, I'm the you know,
>> Yep. sales person from, you know, blah
blah blah. And you know, away you go.
You know, like right now, I think with
OpenAI and Anthropic and so forth, it's
like that. It's like everybody wants to
buy AI. They're already predisposed to
buy.
Very, very different than who the hell
are you? Oh, we're PTC. I've never heard
of PTC. Okay.
Like now I'm in the door.
Why should I buy this?
I can't get it to work. Well, like let
me walk you through how it's going to
work. Like these kinds of things. Yeah,
that's invaluable if you have that.
Actually, so the Ron Gabrisko who's kind
of the original head of sales at
Databricks,
we got him. I had never heard like I had
never heard of the company who he was at
which was a public company. Imagine that
a tech sales guy that I had never heard
of his company.
And the company
was literally selling FTP. Okay. But
secure FTP.
>> Okay. Like think about how good at
selling you have to be to make your
number as a public company selling that.
Yep. And so this guy like obviously had
the discipline forced upon him and he
was extremely smart and that
combination, you know, I'll take that
all day. You know, if you've got that.
And so you'd rather have
you know, a successful company is fine
but some kind of playbook that was
harder to write, some product that was
harder to build. And that's another big
one is um
can you run a playbook or you somebody
who like joined VMware when it was on
fire and got a big position but you ran
the playbook that was set up for you?
Or are you the person who wrote the
playbook, who figured out how to sell
this very complicated piece of software,
who figured out how to lock lock out the
competition, to train the sales force,
to discipline them, to do all that kind
of thing?
That's a much harder find. And you know,
depending on the complexity like if
you've got an easy product, then
that that's one kind of thing. If you've
got a hard product, that's another. Some
of my takeaways were I was the first
basically BDR
and work and spent 10 years.
It was
in a lot of ways contrarian to the way
people thought about selling. Yeah.
Yeah. We sold an application, we sold it
one way and then we moved into the
platform business, totally changed the
way we sold.
Very disciplined on both sides and very
process oriented, like really managed
the process tightly. Yeah. So we're very
good at that and just very tight on the
profile of sales rep. Yeah. And The
profile fits very very well. The
profile. By the way, that's when I
interview sales guys, I always ask them
what's the profile of your rep.
And it's amazing to me that guys who are
very senior in very big jobs
have sometimes very loose profiles.
Whereas the ones who really have to
compete, it's extremely tight. What
they're looking for is so specific.
Uh
and you know, often surprising. One of
the things we just sticking on sales for
a sec. One of the things we got right
got a lot wrong at HubSpot. One of the
things we got right was the process to
interview a rep. And what we found out
was reps who were good learners did well
inside of HubSpot. And so, we got lots
of resumes. We like people on their
second sales job. Not their fifth, not
their first, their second so they'd done
something.
And if they had gone to a half-decent
school, not Harvard, not MIT, state
school State school, be average. And
they Yeah, and if they had been an
athlete if they could fog a mirror and
they did those things, they'd come in
and we didn't overthink it.
We came in for a half hour and the half
hour was, "Ben, welcome." Yeah. And I
would give you a scenario Yeah. and I
would be the customer and I would say,
"Sell me HubSpot." And I'd give you 12
minutes to sell me like literally watch
12.
I'd say, "That's very good, Ben. Here's
my feedback." Couple minutes feedback.
"Why don't you think about it
and let's do it again."
And if the person internalize that
feedback and [clears throat] sold it
better the second time 99% of the time
we hired them. Oh, that's interesting.
>> Yeah, I thought that was pretty good.
And it scaled really well. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. Right. Can they How good at they
are they at listening? This is
By the way, that's the other I think
mistake people make.
They look for somebody who's good at
talking. You really want somebody who's
good at listening. Yeah.
Um what So, important subtle difference.
Yes.
Okay, while we're on this type of thing,
you were the recipient of maybe my
favorite email in the history of emails.
May I read it to you?
>> uh sure, sure.
And the background of this was you had a
big product launch coming. You were
excited about it. You had a press tour
coming up in a couple weeks and Marc
Andreessen
>> Yeah.
front ran it and you sent him an email,
"I guess we're not going to wait until
the fifth to launch the product, Ben."
And the response to Ben Horowitz from
Marc Andreessen, "Apparently, you don't
understand how serious this situation
is. We're getting killed, killed, killed
out there. Our current product is
radically worse than the competition. We
had nothing to say for months. As a
result, we've lost over 3 billion in
market cap. We're now in danger of
losing the whole company, and it's the
server management's fault.
And then I love the ending.
Next time do the [__] interview
yourself. [__] off, Mark.
Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Are are we out of the [__] off era? Uh
for Mark? Everyone.
Like, this is the emails that we get at
PTC.
Oh, yeah. And are we too soft now? You
know, Elon's not soft.
>> Nope.
And I think there's some of that. Like,
I don't think it's quite at PTC level.
So, in Cramer's interview with McMahon,
I think McMahon said to him, "What would
you do if I hit you in the face right
now?"
And I think Cramer's response was,
"Well, first of all, you better knock me
out."
And he And then McMahon says, "Well,
like, but what would you do?" He says,
"Is this a question? Are you testing my
intelligence or my courage?"
Good answer.
But like, you can
you can't ask somebody that in an
interview. My my first interview I
walked in with my suit on there and and
Harrison, who was the original head of
sales, said, "I wouldn't wear that suit
to a [__] fight."
>> [laughter]
>> I think really good companies
the very, very, very, very best
companies tend to have founders and CEOs
who ask pretty aggressive questions.
Zuckerberg, Larry Page, those guys are
pretty who who have kind of gotten all
the way to the mountain top. They're
pretty blunt. And and I think look, I
think that's important in that one of
the most critical things in a company
uh
culturally is, you know, one, you give
direct feedback, and like, you can have
it out. Like, you know, like, Mark was
wrong on that feedback to me. Uh I was
right. But like, it's important that he
be able to say that and then it's
important that I be able to stand up to
it. Otherwise,
uh, the truth doesn't come out. Like,
you've got to like if you're running
away from the truth to preserve
feelings, that's a very dangerous thing
in a tech company. And the kind of
corollary to that is it's really
important that like bad news travels
fast. That, you know, if something's
wrong, that as CEO you find out about
it. And so you need that bluntness. Uh,
Andy Grove used to call it uh,
constructive confrontation.
>> Mhm. And he was By the way, that's
another one.
Where, uh, one of my favorite Andy Grove
anecdotes was, um,
somebody was late to a a meeting, you
know, and then this is when Intel was a
monster and Andy was God and all that
kind of thing. And they come in late to
the meeting.
And he he just looks at them and he
goes, "All I have in this life is time
and you're [__] wasting it."
You know, which is like the meanest
thing you could ever say to somebody.
But, particularly as a company grows,
you need to reset the culture like if
it's starting to fray at the edges. You
can't just let that go.
And by him saying that, you know, it
might crush that person's feelings, but
everybody's telling that story to the
point where I heard it. I didn't work
for Intel, right? And that that's a
culture setter. Like, we're not [__]
late to meetings here. Like, that's not
what we do. And and that's Look, not
every company has that culture, but in
if you have that culture, you need to to
maintain it. Okay, speaking of that, I
coach all these CEOs. Well, one thing
I've noticed is Paul Graham wrote that
founder mode memo. It's It strikes me as
relatively standard operating procedure
now. It's really Well, is that your
reaction, too? Well, yes, although
there's a part that's wrong to it. Or
there's a part that I I would say is a
little misleading to it. You know, and I
think it came originally from Brian
Chesky.
>> And so Brian,
like I said, there's a part that's very
right about it, which is um what
happened to Brian is he hired a like
extremely senior people.
>> Yeah. Uh and then he did the thing that,
you know, we talked earlier, which he
overly deferred. And then that created
fiefdoms, politics, um all kinds of like
weird stuff. And then he kind of after
COVID took the company back by going
into quick founder mode. And this is
like I'm being much more dictatorial.
And I think that that part is all
correct. I think the danger with the
idea is
people are taking it to the point where
they're going, "Well, I don't want to
hire any senior people."
>> Yeah.
I see that. It's like, "Well, okay. So,
you're going to go compete
with and you need a worldwide sales
organization, and you're going to try
and grow a [__] from scratch to
do that. Well, let me tell you all the
things that that person doesn't know
that they're going to have to learn on
your nickel, but you could just buy
today. What's your profile? How do you
split territories? Like how do you open
up international? How do you like
there's just like years and years of
experience and relationships that are
required to do that right? And so,
because you're in founder mode,
you're so [__] afraid to do that.
It's like, "No, you need to be able to
hire that person, too, when you need
them, but you need to be able to manage
them." And that's very different than
avoid, avoid, avoid.
And I think people have taken what Paul
wrote, and it's like, "Oh, no, like no
no no experience people. Like screw that
and so forth." And I, you know,
particularly, you know, if you're an
enterprise company, I think that
definitely doesn't work. Like even on a
consumer company, it's going to be
shaky, you know, like positions like CFO
and so forth. Like outside knowledge is
just valuable. You have to understand
enough about that,
you know, in founder mode, you've got to
learn enough about that job that you
feel confident managing that person and
telling them what to do, uh and not
having them tell you what to do,
because that's that's when you lose the
company. So,
I think it's good. It's a good It's like
an overcorrection from from where things
were.
>> I think you're By the way, I think
you're spot-on on that.
One of my favorite CEOs is Jensen Huang,
and he's got a unique playbook. He's got
60 direct reports, he gives feedback in
public, and everybody knows the story.
The interesting thing about the CEOs I
coach, none of them really do that. They
don't have 60 direct reports. They They
haven't followed his playbook. I kind of
scratch my head at
uh why
>> also haven't followed Elon's playbook,
right?
>> Exactly. No one uses the algorithm
outside of Elon's companies. I don't get
it. Have you You notice the same thing?
So, most of the companies you recruit
out of don't run like that. Um and so,
they don't think of it that way. And
then also, I think that to run it like
Jensen does, by the way, you know,
that's a little bit like I I'd say
closer to how
I run Andreessen Horowitz is more like
how Jensen operates.
But you got to like
the I think what founders are lacking is
the level of confidence that you have to
have to do that, because you have to be
able to say
if you're reporting to me,
you got to be like basically
CEO caliber. Um because I'm not
>> I'm not developing you. Um which is
something that I highly believe in. CEOs
can't really develop executives. They
either can do it or they can't.
>> I agree with you on that.
And then you have to have feel like
you've got enough knowledge just be able
to like walk in and understand what's
going on and so forth, and and kind of
be able to
evaluate uh how the company's going from
you know, at that level. You know, Elon
is the most competent and has the most
confidence of anyone, and you know,
Jensen is kind of at that caliber. I
think that a lot of people, you know,
need to develop that as they go. I would
say like when I
observe Zuckerberg, he didn't have that
the whole way. He's kind of
over time getting more like that, but
you know, like he deferred like half the
company to Sheryl for a while until he
could kind of build his confidence over
there. And and I think that's a little
more
the normal path. It's hard to go from
zero to Jensen. Yeah. You know, like I
mean
you know, it's interesting Jensen's
been doing it now for 30 years.
>> Yeah, 30 plus years. So, you know, what
was he like four years in?
>> I suspect he wasn't quite at this level
of master of the universe. Mhm. What can
the the CEOs listening And Elon, of
course, got fired early. Like you do
like there is a learning curve to the
job even for the best. What can CEOs
learn from Zuckerberg? You worked with
him pretty closely here. Well, I think
Zuck he's very, very, very good at
operating from
kind of first principles thinking, not
being overly influenced by one anybody
else's ideas or just like the way things
are. Like he he's very, very good at
just looking at it. And then also you
know, they were amazingly disciplined at
looking at things through a data lens.
Like, okay, what does the data say and
do that and you you know, that's how
they were able to grow it so fast,
overcome the competition and and these
kinds of things. And he he definitely
stays like extremely curious, which I
think all the
all the great CEOs are like very just
interested in everything all the time.
You know, I think people underestimate
him and Elon and Jensen and so forth on
their like oh, those guys are nerds. The
the the their
people skills are astoundingly good. And
do you think they always were?
Zuckerberg struck me as that not being
the case early. He was so introverted
that you couldn't see it, but I I felt
like it was going on inside his head.
You know, if you look at like the M&A
deals he's done he's he's like a really
outstanding psychologist. And I I think
that
he always had some of that in it. You
know, his mom's uh
in that profession and she's she's very
smart about it, Karen. I think it was
always in there um it but he needed the
confidence to get it out. I mean, he
started that company when he was like a
little kid.
>> Yeah.
You wrote a whole book about culture.
What are people getting wrong?
>> [laughter]
>> I think people don't know what it is.
Like I mean, that's the main thing.
The main thing that particularly
founders don't know, which is why I
wrote the book. Although, it's funny the
people who really like that book were
like Ted Sarandos, you know, like and I
realized after I wrote it
you really don't have the cultural issue
till you get big. And so, at the startup
phase
you you you may be sowing the seeds of
your own cultural like problems, but
there are no cultural issues in the
beginning because
the thing is small, you're saying it,
you're kind of managing the culture by
hand
unconsciously.
So, the big thing that people people
think that culture is values. Um they
think, "Oh, it's, you know, like we have
a culture of integrity or we have a
culture of, you know, whatever."
>> same. Everyone's got the same ones.
>> Yeah, we do we have each other's backs
or like what whatever whatever it is.
And those things aren't really anything.
They're just platitudes. The actual
thing is behaviors. And so,
when you think about your culture, you
kind of want to think about like what
are the behaviors that put you in a
place
where you're the kind of company that
you want to be and give you the
advantage that you want to have. Okay,
we're in venture capital.
What does everybody in venture Well, we
really love entrepreneurs. Like
everybody in venture capital [__]
loves entrepreneurs, but then you get
down to the way entrepreneurs talk about
a lot of VCs and they're like, "These
guys are [__] arrogant. They're
[__] They talk down to me this and
that." Well, like well, if you want to
be this, why are you that?
And it gets down to the behaviors. Are
you on time for a pitch meeting? Are you
on your phone during pitch meeting? Do
you get back to the entrepreneur if
you're not going to invest in them? Like
these behaviors end up setting the
culture whether you're like
care about entrepreneurs, have respect
for them, or you think you're above
them.
And it doesn't have anything to do with
what you said, it has to do with what
you do.
Uh which is why I called the book what
you would do is who you are.
But it's
that's the really the core thing. Um but
it takes a lot of thought to say
okay, if I want to be this, how must I
behave to get there? And you know, you
can say like, oh, treat the company's
money like it's your own. Okay, great,
but what does that mean? Well, where are
you staying? What hotel? You know, how
are you traveling? What's your thing?
And like so if you want that, then that
has to be systematic. Let me ask you
about
>> Now, you may not want that. You know.
There's one cultural gotcha that I see a
lot
where there's a brilliant, brilliant
100x engineer in the company that's an
[__]
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Not sometimes. But by the way, venture
capital is more like that
>> [laughter]
>> than engineering organizations. There's
more
of those. Yes.
Well, like I mean and and I think that
on an engineering team, you kind of have
to have the parameters of okay, like
what does [__] mean? If [__] means
that in the code review I don't say
anything and then I go in the middle of
the night and rewrite your code, that's
going to be tricky as you grow. Like
that that that's hard to manage. If
[__] is I expect like a super high
standard, that's another thing. And so
you kind of want to define like, okay,
what is it that we're not going to do
here? And the thing about engineers is
they're like amazing at following rules.
So if you make clear like what the
parameters are on it. And I I find and
in venture capital, too. Like like we
have that that that's a venture capital
problem if I ever heard one. You know,
you get a lot of very smart spiky
personalities. And you know, Mark and I
talk about this sometimes. It's like
well, was Steve Jobs so mean to people
because that just goes with being so
brilliant or because he could get away
with it because he was so brilliant,
right? Like
>> you come out? Um Well, I've I've had the
same debate. Yeah, so I think it's a
little bit more the latter. And so I
think that if you're running an
organization Wait, which one is the
latter? I forgot. Um that that he could
get away with it. Right? Like he didn't
have to do that. Mhm. Like but he could
do that. And you know, like it's his
company. He can do what he wants. I
think that the problem with founders
modeling themselves after
Jobs. I mean, you know, to some extent
after Elon is well, if you're not Jobs
or Elon, maybe you can't get away with
that. And like maybe people just walk
out the damn door in a way that they
won't with those guys. And it's very
hard to have like the highest performing
talent without like them coming with
some of those behaviors. Uh you know,
and it doesn't matter like in
engineering and BC and whatever.
And so you kind of have to be very
specific about okay,
we're not going to have this,
but we'll have that. You know, one of
the things that I've outlawed at the
firm, which a lot of you know, kind of
people of this ilk would do is like
look, you can't make yourself look smart
by making somebody else look dumb. Like
that doesn't that [__] doesn't count
here. Um if you do it by the way with an
entrepreneur, like if you get on Twitter
and say, "Oh,
that business sells dollars for 85
cents. Ha ha ha, I'm so smart." [__]
you, you're fired. Like I'm not dealing
with that at all because
that's just like not who we're going to
be. We love that you're smart. You can
be as smart as you want to be. Like
that's fine. You don't have to get there
through that method. And then once
people know that,
they're fine like not doing that. But I
couldn't say you think it'd be hard to
say, "Just don't be an asshole." Mhm.
Because like sometimes,
you know, the smart like they're just
like, "I'm not going to suffer through
this dumbass conversation." Like, you
know, there's people who are extremely
smart are are going to do that.
And it can't be like, "Oh, no, you have
to suffer through every dumb
conversation." Like, that's not going to
work. Okay, but there's Ben Horowitz
isn't like, "Don't tolerate it. Zero
tolerance for this thing." It's No, I
think that no [__] rule was never
going to work.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, what is it that
you don't want them to do?
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. Like, what's over the line and
what's not over the line? And like I
think
even like very spiky people can live in
that kind of context.
>> He's very spiky. Yeah. Yeah.
What percentage of I like you brought
this up like um in another pod that I
wanted to follow up on.
Like, when I was CEO of Opsware, I I
didn't know what I was doing a lot of
time. I was confused a lot. And when you
were CEO, you felt the same way. Like,
what percentage of the time do you feel
like, "I really don't know what I'm
doing" versus "I kind of got a handle on
this thing"? And today, running
Andreessen Horowitz or through your
journey, like I found yours pretend like
they know what they're doing. Yeah,
well, everybody pretends. Um and this is
kind of part of the challenge. So, I
think it takes a while. I mean, like I
Now, like I had to grow up very fast. We
went public when we were 18 months old,
right? So,
>> That'll grow you up in a hurry.
But I I didn't really feel like I knew
what I was doing there probably till
4 years into it. Um
you know, when I rebuilt the sales
force, I brought in Craney, all that
kind of thing. Maybe three and a half, 4
years into it.
And I was never
as confident at that as I was as I am
now. And it it's different for different
people, but like it you need like enough
reps at it to have
like the more confident you are in your
judgment, the faster the decisions you
can make, the less you care about what
people think, the less you care about
making a mistake. And those are all the
things. That's why Jensen is so magical,
right? Like he sits in the room, he
talks to everybody, he knows exactly
what he wants. Same with Elon, right?
Like he can just sit there and go. I
guarantee you neither of them started
that way.
Uh
>> Yep. You you know, like you you build it
into that.
>> I see silly things on Twitter where
people say
venture capital is easier than
entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship is
easier than venture capital. People ask
me that.
>> Venture capital is easier.
What's he talking about?
>> Way easier. Yeah, I know.
Uh
>> Like that's not even close. Like who the
[__] would think venture capital is
harder than entrepreneurship?
>> of people. I think the venture capital
there's a lot more luck involved. Like
if you join Andreessen Horowitz today,
you have an amazing platform or Sequoia,
amazing platform. And you may do three
deals, you know, maybe one turns into a
trillion-dollar company. There's a fair
amount of luck around that. Yeah. Yeah,
I I mean, I think that
>> Entrepreneurship doesn't have a lot of
luck. It has some luck.
>> It also a lot of bad luck.
>> Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, entrepreneurship
you have one shot, you have to make it
work. And then you really, really pay
for your mistakes much more directly.
And then the clock is ticking in a way
it's like
>> Yep.
You There are no quarters in venture
capital. So, like venture capital is
just kind of like a an easier kind of
business. Now,
look, there's a lot of people I'm saying
that as
you know, someone who succeeded in it. I
suppose if you failed in it,
it might look harder in a in a different
way. But I like I think that
the pressure level and the stress level
is not close because if you have a small
venture capital thing and it fails, it's
never a lot of people. Like you you can
get a tech company up to thousands of
people and then have them lay them all
the all off. Yes. Like that is common.
Yeah. And it's brutal. And then
the people that you're raising money for
have a much tighter eye on you because
it
you could have one funding source,
whereas in venture capital you always
have, you know, many funders. Mhm.
Very generally have many funders, yeah.
I appreciate you coming on the pod.
>> Yeah, no, it was fun.
>> Uh All right. Yeah, thank you very much.
I think all the CEOs who are watching
are going to really like it. Thank you.
All right, good good good.
Okay, I hope you liked that episode with
Ben. I really liked it, learned a lot.
Something I thought about while he was
talking is one of my bugs as CEO of
HubSpot was I'm pretty conflict-averse.
I think a lot of CEOs are, particularly
first-time founder CEOs. Andreessen
Horowitz and Sequoia back a lot of
first-time CEOs who haven't really
managed before, and it's just
uncomfortable. Confrontation is
uncomfortable,
unless you kind of grew up with it,
it's just not natural. Ben's got a good
term that I'm going to borrow. He calls
it constructive confrontation.
I like that. You need to have a
constructive level of confrontation with
most people inside of your organization.
I think kind of related to that, Ben
talks about decision debt. And we had
this at HubSpot. You had a VP of sales,
you know you need to fire them, but you
kick the can down the road hoping they
nail the next quarter. You know your
pricing model not really working and
scaling, but you kick the can down the
road a couple quarters to fix it.
There's all kinds of stuff kicking
around your head like that. And
you know, I think it's a lack of
confidence. I want to be a popular CEO.
I think that was another bug of mine
kind of related with that
conflict-averse thing. All of this also
rhymes, I think, with hiring. And
there's a lot of talk around founder
mode, and you know, people hiring and
deferring to people, and now they're
micromanaging.
I think when you're a a first-time
founder CEO and you're hiring a
been-there-done-that person that's more
senior than you, has done more stuff in
their career,
you're a little nervous about truly
managing them and you end up deferring
to them and that's where the problem
starts.
And so I think a lot of this idea around
constructive confrontation that Ben
talked about is really productive. And
if you're a little risk-averse like me,
if you're a little
you want to be popular like me, maybe
you need to be a little bit more
constructive in your confrontation.
The last [music] thing I would say that
he talked about and I agreed on is being
a CEO is pretty uncomfortable,
particularly from one of these
hypergrowth CEO companies today. They're
growing so fast, everything's breaking,
everything's changing.
I think it's just fine
if in your head you think you don't know
what you're doing because Ben didn't
think he knew what he was doing when he
was running Loudcloud. And I didn't
think I knew what I was doing when I was
running HubSpot. So if you're feeling
that as a CEO,
I'm here for you.
Hope you liked it. Let's keep the convo
going. I'm @bhalligan on X. See you over
there.